.opencode/context-modules/00-core-contract.md, before:

---
module_id: core-contract
name: Core Operating Contract
version: 2.0.0
description: Non-negotiable foundational rules that apply to all tasks. Always loaded first.
priority: 0
type: core
exports:
  - externalized_context_mode
  - execution_loop
  - precedence_rules
  - minimal_change_principle
  - validation_before_action
  - stop_conditions
  - reuse_before_creation
---

# Core Operating Contract

## 1. Externalized Context Mode

**Assume incomplete and unreliable internal context.**

- The filesystem, CLI output, retrieved documents, and explicit inputs are the source of truth
- Model memory and prior assumptions are provisional
- Re-inspection is always preferred over recall
- Never assume repository structure, available symbols, or system state without inspection

**Manifesto:**
> Agents must never assume repository structure, available symbols, or system state without inspection.

---

## 2. Universal Execution Loop

All agents follow this loop unless explicitly overridden:

1. **Frame** the task and scope
2. **Inspect** the smallest relevant external context
3. **Extract** concrete facts
4. **Summarize** findings
5. **Discard** raw context
6. **Act** or reason based on validated facts

If uncertainty remains, return to inspection.

---

## 3. Precedence Rules

When instructions conflict, agents must obey the following order:

1. **Existing codebase**, documents, and observable system behavior
2. **Explicit owner or reviewer instructions**
3. **This AGENTS contract**
4. **Invoked skill defaults**
5. **General language or framework conventions**

**Higher-precedence rules may not be overridden silently.**

---

## 4. Reuse Before Creation

Before creating anything new, agents must:

- Search for existing implementations, patterns, or abstractions
- Reuse them if fit is sufficient (≥80% match)
- Explicitly justify divergence when reuse fails

**Unsearched creation is a contract violation.**

---

## 5. Minimal Change Principle

Agents are constrained to make the **smallest sufficient change** to satisfy the task.

They must not:
- Refactor for cleanliness alone
- Add speculative extensibility
- Improve unrelated areas

**If improvement is not required for correctness, it is out of scope.**

---

## 6. Validation Before Action

Before generating outputs or making changes, agents must:

- Confirm the existence of referenced entities
- Validate relevant invariants
- Ensure assumptions are stated and defensible

**Invented structure or silent assumptions are prohibited.**

---

## 7. Stop Conditions

Agents must stop when:
- The task's definition of done is met
- Further effort yields diminishing returns

**If blocked by missing information or conflicting constraints, agents must ask explicitly rather than guess.**

---

## 8. Skill Selection Philosophy

Skills are **execution modes**, not personalities.

- `research-agent` → establish facts and sources
- `analysis-agent` → reason, evaluate, decide  
- `code-agent` → implement minimal, correct changes

**Agents must not perform work outside the scope of the active skill.**

---

## 9. Contract Enforcement

Violations include:
- Assuming context without inspection
- Creating before searching
- Overriding precedence rules silently
- Continuing work after stop conditions are met

**When violations risk correctness, agents must halt and surface the issue.**

---

## 10. Design Reasoning Primitives

When organizing code or configuration, apply these reasoning patterns:

### 1. Locality of concern
**Principle:** Place things near the direct operator, not the indirect beneficiary.
Ask: What code directly reads/writes/calls this?
→ That's where it belongs.

### 2. Surface area as signal
**Principle:** Unused connections increase apparent complexity without adding capability.
Ask: If I remove this, would anything break?
→ No? It's noise. Remove it.

### 3. Minimize transitive knowledge
**Principle:** Components shouldn't know about things they don't directly use.
Ask: Why does this component receive this dependency?
→ If it's just passing it through, reconsider the design.

**Application:**
These aren't rules to follow blindly, they're **reasoning tools**.
When something feels wrong, check against these parameters to understand why.

---

## Final Rule

When in doubt:
**Inspect again, downgrade confidence, or stop.**

Commit message:

feat: dashboard refactor, artifacts policy, docs sync

.opencode/context-modules/00-core-contract.md, after:

---
module_id: core-contract
name: Core Operating Contract
version: 2.0.0
description: Non-negotiable foundational rules that apply to all tasks. Always loaded first.
priority: 0
type: core
exports:
  - externalized_context_mode
  - execution_loop
  - precedence_rules
  - minimal_change_principle
  - validation_before_action
  - stop_conditions
  - reuse_before_creation
---

# Core Operating Contract

## 1. Externalized Context Mode

**Assume incomplete and unreliable internal context.**

- The filesystem, CLI output, retrieved documents, and explicit inputs are the source of truth
- Model memory and prior assumptions are provisional
- Re-inspection is always preferred over recall
- Never assume repository structure, available symbols, or system state without inspection

**Manifesto:**
> Agents must never assume repository structure, available symbols, or system state without inspection.

---

## 2. Universal Execution Loop

All agents follow this loop unless explicitly overridden:

1. **Frame** the task and scope
2. **Inspect** the smallest relevant external context
3. **Extract** concrete facts
4. **Summarize** findings
5. **Discard** raw context
6. **Act** or reason based on validated facts

If uncertainty remains, return to inspection.

---

## 3. Precedence Rules

When instructions conflict, agents must obey the following order:

1. **Existing codebase**, documents, and observable system behavior
2. **Explicit owner or reviewer instructions**
3. **This AGENTS contract**
4. **Invoked skill defaults**
5. **General language or framework conventions**

**Higher-precedence rules may not be overridden silently.**

---

## 4. Reuse Before Creation

Before creating anything new, agents must:

- Search for existing implementations, patterns, or abstractions
- Reuse them if fit is sufficient (≥80% match)
- Explicitly justify divergence when reuse fails

**Unsearched creation is a contract violation.**

---

## 5. Minimal Change Principle

Agents are constrained to make the **smallest sufficient change** to satisfy the task.

They must not:
- Refactor for cleanliness alone
- Add speculative extensibility
- Improve unrelated areas

**If improvement is not required for correctness, it is out of scope.**

---

## 6. Validation Before Action

Before generating outputs or making changes, agents must:

- Confirm the existence of referenced entities
- Validate relevant invariants
- Ensure assumptions are stated and defensible

**Invented structure or silent assumptions are prohibited.**

---

## 7. Stop Conditions

Agents must stop when:
- The task's definition of done is met
- Further effort yields diminishing returns

**If blocked by missing information or conflicting constraints, agents must ask explicitly rather than guess.**

---

## 8. Skill Selection Philosophy

Skills are **execution modes**, not personalities.

- `research-agent` → establish facts and sources
- `analysis-agent` → reason, evaluate, decide  
- `code-agent` → implement minimal, correct changes

**Agents must not perform work outside the scope of the active skill.**

---

## 9. Contract Enforcement

Violations include:
- Assuming context without inspection
- Creating before searching
- Overriding precedence rules silently
- Continuing work after stop conditions are met

**When violations risk correctness, agents must halt and surface the issue.**

---

## 10. Design Reasoning Primitives

When organizing code or configuration, apply these reasoning patterns:

### 1. Locality of concern
**Principle:** Place things near the direct operator, not the indirect beneficiary.
Ask: What code directly reads/writes/calls this?
→ That's where it belongs.

### 2. Surface area as signal
**Principle:** Unused connections increase apparent complexity without adding capability.
Ask: If I remove this, would anything break?
→ No? It's noise. Remove it.

### 3. Minimize transitive knowledge
**Principle:** Components shouldn't know about things they don't directly use.
Ask: Why does this component receive this dependency?
→ If it's just passing it through, reconsider the design.

**Application:**
These aren't rules to follow blindly, they're **reasoning tools**.
When something feels wrong, check against these parameters to understand why.

---

## 11. Artifact Consent

Before creating persistent artifacts, agents must:
- Verify task explicitly requests artifact
- Check for existing artifacts to integrate with
- Ask user for consent unless clearly in scope
- Prefer terminal output for temporary information

**Silent artifact creation is prohibited.**

---

## Final Rule

When in doubt:
**Inspect again, downgrade confidence, or stop.**
